Shadbala Basics
Signification
Planetary strength is important for chart prediction. Strong planets
will have auspicious effects during their time of influence (Dasas,
transits). Weak planets will have inauspicious effects.
Strength of Rasi resp. Bhava lords is another important aspect of the
chart. Bhavas will have effects according to their strength and the
strength of their lords.
Some sources of strength give hints for special purposes: e.g. Digbala
gives informations about directions having positive or negative effects.
Calculation
The complete Shadbala is the sum of all Balas. Balas are calculated in
Rupas or Virupas. One Rupa has 60 Virupas. Most sources of strength have
values between 0 Virupas (very weak) and maximum value of 60 Virupas
(very strong). Other sources (like Drekkana Bala) have only a maximum
value of 30 Virupas.
Parasara gives required values of strength for each planet. Planets
meeting these requirements are considered to be strong. These planets
will have favourable effects. Planets without strength will prove
inauspicious.
Types of Shadbala
There are 6 main types of Shadbala. Sthana Bala and Kala Bala have
several sub-Balas. The hierarchy (including translation of Sanskrit
terms) is shown below. Please follow the links.
Sthana Bala
- positional strength
1.1 Uchcha Bala - divisional strength
1.2 Saptavargaja Bala - strength of exaltation
1.3 Ojhajugmariamsa Bala - strength related to placement in odd/even
Rasis and Navamsas
1.4 Kendradi Bala - strength of placement in angle, succedent or
cadent houses
1.5 Drekkana Bala - strength according to Drekkana placement of
planets
Dig Bala
- directional strength
Kala Bala
- temporary strength
3.1 Nathonatha Bala - diurnal/nocturnal strength
3.2 Paksha Bala - strength related to Lunar phase
3.3 Tribhaga Bala - strength related to portions of the day/night
3.4 Varsha-Masa-Dina-Hora Bala - strength of astrological year,
month, day and hour
3.5 Yudhdha Bala - strength caused by planetary war
3.6
Ayana Bala
- equinoctial strength
Cheshta Bala
- motional strength
Naisargika Bala
- natural strength
Drig Bala
- aspectual strength
Summary
Bala Summary